## Cardiovascular Risk Forecasting: Leveraging Health Data to Improve Patient Outcomes

Heart disease is the leading cause of death for people of most racial and ethnic groups in the United States, including African American, American Indian, Alaska Native, Hispanic, and white men. For women from the Pacific Islands and Asian American, American Indian, Alaska Native, and Hispanic women, heart disease is second only to cancer (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). Accurate prediction can save countless lives and improve patient outcomes. Predictive models and risk assessment tools can play a crucial role in identifying key risk factors and enabling early detection, empowering healthcare providers to take proactive steps towards reducing the burden of cardiovascular diseases and promoting heart health. My project aims to create one such model, utilizing physiological data to determine the most prevalent risk factors for heart attacks. I built and evaluated several different regression and classification models to compare multiple options and see which performed best with the dataset. I calculated evaluation metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, and f-1 scores to assess the performance of each model. Two models, in particular, stood out as the most effective options for predicting the occurrence of a heart attack - the Support Vector Classifier (SVC) with the Best Parameters found, and the L2 regularized Logistic Regression model with cross-validation. When comparing the metrics obtained from these two models, both exhibited extremely similar performance. Both models demonstrated high accuracy rates and the same precision, recall, and f-1 scores, outperforming the other models considered. In contrast, the Random Forest Tree and Decision Tree Classifier models proved to be less effective in predicting heart attacks, with only 74% accuracy and much lower precision, recall, and f-1 scores than those of the SVC and Logistic Regression models. 
