## Airline Safety Executive Summary Presentation

Utilizing the six charts that I created for the internal review, I prepared my presentation for the executive committee with a slide deck. My main focus was to present charts that would be truthful and transparent but still effectively show the contrast between the safety of air travel versus automobile travel. We want to encourage the trust of our airline, but do not want to be unethical or misrepresent the data in our favor. The line chart of world departures annually showed that flying was more popular than ever leading up to the global pandemic (which resulted in a small drop in the number of departing flights each year due to travel restrictions). We need to increase these numbers back to what they were pre-pandemic, but the recent news coverage is not conducive to this. By focusing on the contrasting patterns between fatality rates and the total counts of fatalities per each method of transportation, we can illustrate just how favorable safety odds are for air travel versus automobile travel. The similar patterns of both area charts indicate that general travel safety has improved as technology advances each year and new regulations are introduced, but upon closer examination, one can see that the actual number of incidents is much higher for automobiles than airplanes. I also included a tree map of the operators with the highest fatalities to show that our (fictional) airline (a domestic flights only, US-based airline) does not belong to the same type of airline as those that were of the three highest fatality counts (the top 3 being international or military). I ended the presentation with some suggestions as to what to focus on when addressing customers in future marketing related to our goal of combating negative publicity. 
